Sensual ways to promote more sex in your marraige

According to Michelle Weiner Davis, author of “The Sex Starved Marriage,” making time to focus on pleasure, instead of having an orgasm, can bring couples unpressured, playful sexual intimacy. This works best when couples agree to go slower, communicate, try different positions within each sexual encounter, and take turns pleasing each other rather than being goal-oriented in their sexual touch. Further, the best way to deal with differences in sex desire is by communicating openly and respectfully about your needs, while being receptive to what your partner’s desires might be. Rather than criticizing your partner, show them what turns you on! 

Being more sensual in your communication with your partner includes talking about how attracted to them you are, how attractive you think he or she is, and what you look forward to during your time alone together. Saying something like “I love it when we cuddle on the sofa and you touch me” can boost your emotional intimacy.  

In other words, it’s a great idea to focus on sensual touch such as holding hands with your partner, cuddling more often, initiating sex more, and demonstrating your love through physical contact. In fact, touching can release oxytocin (the bonding hormone) and causes a calming sensation. Studies by Julianne Holt-Lundstad of Brigham Young University show that oxytocin is released during sexual orgasm and affectionate touch as well. Physical affection also reduces stress hormones, which lowers daily levels of the stress hormone cortisol and increases a person’s sense of relationship satisfaction. When you have the time, enjoy sharing a massage before sleep!

Scheduling at least one date night a week when you don’t focus on work or your family can also help you rekindle passion with your partner because you’re making intimacy a priority.

Responding positively to your partner’s overtures for emotional and sexual connection will help you bring out the best in one another and keep your relationship fulfilling and sexually satisfying. Sex in a good partnership serves its purpose to enhance vitality and satisfaction. Give your partner the gift of love and passion today. The good vibes that you feel after sex can help to keep you close for days!

